hey guys I have to start with the caveat
that if I look exhausted it's because I
am exhausted I've been sleeping very
irregularly working out a lot at the gym
and never before my life of a she had
this problem we're working out of the
gym is it really interrupting and
scrambling my my sleep cycle very
strange anyway interesting issue that's
come up in the discussions within my my
patreon page one of my supporters one of
my patrons commented that she has
concluded after ten years as an ethical
vegan more years before that as a
vegetarian the only way the only way to
influence people is leading by example
now the vast majority of us know this
isn't true even if we've never thought
through the ways in which it isn't true
we've never thought through the
implications of what our lives would be
like if it really were true or what's
problematic with this perspective on the
world leading by example sounds like a
good thing and I think actually the
medium of television has really
encouraged in our culture the assumption
that role models that leading by example
this is a tremendously important and
positive thing and it's not what do you
do if your son is trying to quit smoking
do you just lead by example do you lead
by example and then stop saying this is
all I can do leading by example is the
only thing I can do or leading by
example is the best thing I can do what
do you do if your father is trying to
quit smoking do you just lead by example
do you think that's the only way you can
help him or do you declare without even
looking into it this is the most i can
do this is the only thing that you're
leading by example is our only option I
like to use this comparison between
veganism in both its long-term social
aspirations and it the short-term
immediate
the of dealing with your own father with
your own son with your own brother your
own friends and co-workers in so many
ways what we're looking at in the future
it's similar to the long-term struggle
to abolish the use of tobacco there are
also important differences people do not
quit smoking in order to save the lives
of the tobacco plants whereas many
people become vegan to save the lives of
animals the mean concern with cigarette
smoking is not ecological it's instead
health and the psychology of addiction
and men many other factors but right
away we see the absurdity of saying no
the only way I can influence these
people on that human level my own father
mount son is by leading by example the
fact that I don't smoke or that i may
have quit smoking in the past the fact
that i may be an excellent example
actually does nothing to help them as
they say i think that the culture of
watching television of watching heroes
and villains act out scenarios of
watching role models being presented to
us on the nightly news i think in some
ways it it trains us in our culture to
think about that leading by example is a
very important thing or to think that
leading by example really helps people
when it does not i am actually not
helping my father or my son at all I
don't have a son so as a theoretical
example and my father is never been a
cigarette smoker it's a purely
hypothetical example I am not helping
these people in any way if I am leading
by example and in fact that approach to
the problem becomes a dangerous excuse
for not helping them at all now that's
only on that immediate small scale on
the larger scale talking about policy
decisions made by government talking
about no social planning public
education outreach lobbying government
forming a group you know I don't know
let's say you live in a country where
the government doesn't yet have these
policies you say okay we're going to
form a political group we're going to
try to influence the government's to put
warnings on the packages of the
cigarettes to have taxes that discourage
people from smoking we want to have
education in the schools we want to have
posters up and want to have a whole
Oh program pressing for social change
lobbying the government's trying to
educate and motivate the public let's go
interview some doctors let's put
together a movie about how you know
diseases caused by cigarettes ruin
people's lives there's so much you can
do that is not leading by example and
the example would be a terrible excuse
to not think about those things or not
do those things if your goal is
seriously if you're putting together a
group of activists so this particular
eyes I'm trying to bring about on a
larger scale you know the quitting of
smoking the abolition of of cigarette
smoking or what have you now because I
have dealt with Buddhism for so many
years i have met devout true believing
Buddhists who really actually believe
that the only way they could help the
poor was leading by example very few
people sincerely believe that I've met
some people sincerely do so for example
you get a Buddhist who is a wealthy
immigrant from Asia to the United States
and let's just say they're racist
against black people not uncommon if you
spent time to put us monasteries in
meeting to vote Buddhists you meet a lot
of developers who are racist it's
perhaps especially against against black
people um and let's say this Asian
immigrant explains to you that their
view of the world is there's absolutely
nothing they can do to help black people
except enjoying their own wealth except
leading by example except earning a lot
of money spending a lot of money and
that's leading by example showing others
how to make money showing others how to
enjoy money what have you that there is
nothing they can do but lead by example
it's sick and there's a whole you know
outlook on the world shaped by the
belief in karma shaped by some
principles in Buddhist philosophy that
could be not a no good if if sort of
used in the right way but principles in
Buddhist philosophy that very readily
slip into
a self-indulgent ego trip that basically
those who have money should just go on
earning more money and enjoying their
wealth and privilege and status now of
course there was a time when this was a
debate within you know ho amongst white
Americans definitely if you go back to
the period say 1948 through to about
1958 you know after World War two there
were many white Americans who felt that
the only thing they could do for black
people are the best thing they could do
for black people was simply to lead by
example and this was a considerable
distraction in that period of time in
many parts the United States actually
the status of African Americans of black
Americans got worse not better even
though as a period of tremendous overall
economic opportunity and expansion which
to some extent masked that actually
there were terrible policies many of the
most important which can be blamed on
franklin delano roosevelt in the
roosevelt administration terrible
unforgivable racist policies that really
did result in the ghettoization of black
americans in areas where before they
were not living in ghettos post-world
war two ghettoization so there are so
many reasons doesn't i don't want to
make this into a one-hour monologue but
again actually where I was in
Saskatchewan again you had very similar
form of of racism you could meet Asians
who had immigrated to Canada who felt
that native Canadians indigenous
Canadians First Nations that those
people were living in poverty and that
the only thing that these new immigrants
could do or should do or would do is to
to lead by example so this is deeply
deeply problematic it avoids anyone
thinking about what leading by example
really means and how profoundly
different it is from actual leadership
right to actually lead people in
quitting smoking is totally different
from leading by example and leading by
example if we're honest with ourselves
is is not leading it all it's not
helping at all I mean the last thought I
wanted to state on this the reason why
I've chosen these examples is that the
worst thing about leading by example
isn't the excuse for inactivity which is
natural or inevitable rich people want
excuses to just relax and be rich people
and not help the poor I don't know
everyone wants an excuse to not help
their brother quit smoking you may not
need excuse that guy's a jerk anyway you
can quit smoking on his own whatever you
know the excuses for inaction to some
extent are just human all too human the
most dangerous part is that it precludes
asking questions how can I help my
brother quit smoking how can I help my
son quit smoking of course it will talk
about quitting heroin or something and
maybe even worse that is actually opens
up and incredibly difficult and painful
set of questions it may require real
research but both on the human level and
political level and everything else how
actually person to person can I help you
quit smoking and it's probably going to
be a very difficult conversation between
the two of you maybe one you have to ask
again and again you know well look
you've got a vacation coming up is it
going to help you if I actually you know
if you spend that vacation somewhere
where you're not going to be tempted to
smoke cigarettes if you take two weeks
and you really try to dry out or what
have you maybe we try that and it
backfires because as soon as you're back
to the stress of your regular job you
start smoking again whatever the story
is the question of how can I help what
can I do it's going to lead to a long
series of difficult faltering and
uncertain answers seeking out new
information and new options the question
of again especially if we go back to
nineteen forty eight the question of how
can white Americans help black Americans
escape the terrible poverty inequality
poor access to houses poor access to
bank loans you know one of the crucial
problems that african-americans had much
worse time getting a loan in order
own a house you know there was systemic
racism and disallowing blacks from
renting homes in some neighborhoods so
they were forced to only rent homes and
ghettos because they were not allowed to
rent homes elsewhere so you know
systemic racism involving the bank
involving the housing company involving
the government absolutely etc etc the
question of how could white people help
just to pick 10 years 1948 958 in
answering that question tremendously
difficult tremendously uncomfortable
series of answers you know seeking out
new information seeking a new options
etc and we avoid even asking ourselves
that with this paradigm of all I can do
is lead by example or the best thing I
can do is lead by example if you are a
vegan and you think you are leading by
example I think you're doing nothing I
don't think you're leading anyone
anywhere I don't think you're leading
anyone to do anything I don't believe in
that um there's there's a real sense in
which I don't believe in role models in
the same way that I don't believe in the
tooth fairy I got an email complaining
not too long ago that I was being a bad
role model and why shouldn't my my
channel instead you know why shouldn't I
struggle to present myself as a good
role model now that gets into a whole
different topic of keeping it real what
keeping it real means to me why this
channel is the way it is but you one of
my responses to questions of that kind
because I've gotten asked that more than
once every one of our responses was you
know tell it to raekwon raekwon is a
wrap or a hip-hop artist you'd hope
large large parts of the arts not just
rap music do not have this idea that
everyone should be a role model but more
fundamentally what do you think I would
be accomplishing if I presented myself
as a role model on a really deep level I
think I
would be accomplishing nothing and worse
than nothing in presenting myself as a
role model I will be presenting a
dishonest half real and half unreal
version of my life instead of presenting
you with something really honest that
includes the misgivings and the
contradictions and the uncertainties and
the questions the quest for new
information new information new options
new routes to make a pause the
difference in the world we've got like
1,000,000 youtube channels where people
present themselves as role models where
they present an illusion of affluence
even if they don't have affluence they
present an illusion of leisure even if
their lives are not really that leisured
and where they present an illusion of
absolute confidence of having all the
answers of being completely self
satisfied in their convictions and I
want to present you with none of that I
want to keep it real and sometimes the
answer to the question is I don't know
and sometimes the answer to a question
is I think we need to ask new deeper
better questions and when I'm doing that
I'm not leading by example and I think
I'm doing something much more meaningful
even than offering leadership